Am I
## done?

Note: I wish I could tell you that my beautiful, albeit a little overweight,
patch got accepted, but I haven't.  It'll be 4 months old this Sunday.


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="images/sad_trombone.svg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Note: I'm currently figuring out the CMS codebase, in order to figure out why
the acceptance tests are failing.  But at least my PR is now tagged with
`engineering-review`.  That's a good thing, right?


What
## I
could've
## done better

Note: Time for some self-criticism.  The main thing I should've done was given
it more of my time.  A contribution is more like a baby than you'd think.  If
you leave it, it'll die.

Which brings me to...


What I
## really liked
about
## contributing

Note: While hacking on a new project is always cool (if you're a programmer,
that is), the same doesn't necessarily hold true for contributing patches.

The edX team, in particular @nedbat, @andyrubin and @joel, were awesome,
though.  They acknowledged the difficulties and were very responsive.  They
even pinged **me** about the patch when I left it alone for too long.

You can tell they're serious about building a community - it's why I bothered
submitting this talk.  The fact they accepted it is even more indicative of the
fact.


Where I
## would like
to see
## Open edX go

Note: While I think things are on the right track, all in all, there are a few
things I would like to see.


### "Don't give new developers impossible tasks they can never finish."
- Jono Bacon

Note:  I'm not advocating relaxing coding standards for the sake of community
building (though this is an interesting topic in an of itself), and I like a
challenge as much as anyone, but I'm reminded of one of the first times I
contributed to an open source project.

I had a working patch, but it didn't quite conform to the project architecture
- so I submitted it anyway.  What the maintainer said, was: "It's ok.  Thank
  you for your contribution: it's now my job to refactor it so it fits."


## Gerrit

Note: Gerrit is just plain better for community contributions.  You can easily
see a history of the failed attempts, and, most importantly, it is possible for
the community to voice their opinion in the form of votes.


## Ta-da!

Note: Yesterday Joel and the guys promised a "more transparent road map so you
can plan on it".  This reminds me of the way Google does open source, in
particular Android: it's more like "tada! source": while the community gets the
source code, it gets no say in project direction.


## Otto

Note: Case in point: after edX 2015, we eagerly awaited Dogwood and Otto so we
could power our own ecommerce platform.  Unfortunately, however, it was mostly
developed behind closed doors: the feature was not being tracked in a public
web page, and there were no public discussions about it.  In the end, it was
released without European VAT regulations support, and instead of being able to
contribute a fix, we were forced to roll our own solution.  This is a clear
case where openness would've benefitted everybody.


Not just
## open source,
but
## open discussion

Note: If you take anything away from this talk, this should be it.


Want advice?
## Make friends

Note: Which brings me to the main reason why should come to Open edX Con - if
you're a contributor, that is: to make friends.  It's gonna help.


## The PR

- [edx-platform#11605](https://github.com/edx/edx-platform/pull/11605)

Note: This is the PR we discussed.


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="images/by-sa.svg" data-background-size="contain" -->
http://arbrandes.github.io/openedx2016

https://github.com/arbrandes/openedx2016

Note: This presentationis under the CC-BY-SA 3.0 license. So please feel free
to peruse these slides as a basis for your own presentations, as you see fit.
