# Why contribute?

Note: Bear with me as I take a quick detour to discuss why anyone would want to
contribute code back at all.


From the
## horse's mouth

Note: So, from the horse's mouth (I'm the horse):  I created a patch for an
open source project, and was faced with a simple choice: should I give it back,
or not?


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="images/jc.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Note: This is the son of one of my best friends - he was born a month ago.  As
you can see, he's really, really cute.  You know that warm, protective feeling
you're getting right now (if you have a heart, I mean)?  If you're a new
contributor and you create a working patch, this is how you feel about it.
It's your baby and its beautiful, no matter what anybody says.


Well, of course!
## He IS beautiful,
isn't he?

Note: Interestingly, when trying to convince his mother of letting me use the
picture, all I had to do was say that he was prettier than all babies in the
stock pictures I found.

This pretty much answers the question of why you'd want to contribute your own
patch.


A
## misconception

Note: There's a very practical reason for contributing a patch, though it's
burdened with a misconception.   The misconception is that once it's upstream,
you don't need to worry about it anymore.  That's not quite how it happens,
especially if you're contributing a feature.  The patch is your baby, and you
can't just go dropping it on somebody's doorstep.  "Here baby, you take care
now! *wham*"


Maintaining a
## fork, forever

Note: Still, by getting it upstream you're not only giving your baby a
check-up, making it stronger in the process, but more importantly, you don't
have to maintain a constantly rebased branch of it - forever.  Once it's been
accepted (and when protected by defensive - aka unit - tests), at the very
least you won't be called upon to fix it for every new patch - every new patch
will have to take care not to break it.


How about
## YOU?

Note: Many (many!) people hold on to private forks, not just of edX, but most
open source projects.  C'mon, raise your hands!  I know I've done it before.  I
used to do it for a living, actually.


Strength in
## numbers

Note: As you've probably realized by now, this is the Community Edition of Open
edX Con.  Nevertheless, I don't think anybody mentioned yet that the stronger
the community is, the better chance you have of your patch being well treated
(if you don't have a pink dot on your name tag, I mean).


<!-- .slide: data-background-image="images/complaints.jpg" data-background-size="contain" -->

Note: Plus, if you don't contribute anything, you're not allowed to complain
about anything - and who's ready to give **that** up?
